.TH SRMV2 n "$Date$" INFN "StoRM Administrator Commands"
.SH NAME
srmv2storm \- start the StoRM SRM v2 server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B srmv2
[
.BI -c " config_file"
] [
.BI -l " log_file"
] [
.BI -t " num_threads"
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B srmv2storm
command starts the StoRM SRM v2 server.
This command is usually executed at system startup time
.RB ( /etc/rc.local ).
A procedure is provided in ${prefix}/etc/init.d/srmv2storm to start and stop
the server and ask for its status. To invoke it one can issue as 
root the following:
.nf

# ${prefix}/etc/init.d/srmv2storm {start|stop|status|restart|condrestart}

.fi
This will read the StoRM "request" database configuration file,
create a pool of threads and look for requests.
Each of them is processed in a thread which opens a connection to the
database server if necessary.
When a request has been completed, the thread becomes idle until it is allocated
to another request.
The connection to the database server is kept open between 2 requests.
.LP
All error messages and statistical information are kept in a log.
.LP
The StoRM SRM Server listen port number can be defined on client hosts and
on the server itself in either of the following ways:
.RS
.LP
setting an environment variable SRMV2_PORT
.RS
.HP
setenv SRMV2_PORT 8444
.RE
.LP
an entry in
.B /etc/shift.conf
like:
.RS
.HP
SRMV2	PORT	8444
.RE
.RE
.LP
If none of these methods is used, the default port number is taken from the
definition of SRMV2_PORT in srm_server.h.
.LP
The StoRM SRM "request" database keeps the requests and their status
even after completion.
.LP
The StoRM SRM configuration file contains password information for the
database and must be readable/writable only by root.
It contains a single line in the format:
.RS
.HP
username/password@server
.RE
where 'username' and 'password' are the credentials to login to the database
instance identified by 'server'.
.LP
In the log each entry has a timestamp.
All entries corresponding to one request have the same request id.
For each user command there is one message giving information about
the requestor (hostname, dn) and one message SRM98 giving the command
itself.
The completion code of the command is also logged.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -c " config_file"
Specifies a different path for the StoRM SRM v2 configuration file.
.TP
.BI -l " log_file"
Specifies a different path for the StoRM SRM v2 log file.
.TP
.BI -l " num_threads"
Specifies the number of threads the server starts with. The default is 20.
.SH FILES
.TP 1.5i
.B /etc/sysconfig/srmv2storm.nsconfig
configuration file
.TP
.B /var/log/storm/srmv2log
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Here is a small log:
.nf
08/04 21:18:47 22343,0 PrepareToPut: request by /C=IT/O=INFN/OU=Personal Certificate/L=Pisa/CN=Flavia Donno/Email=flavia.donno@pi.infn.it from testbed006.cnaf.infn.it
08/04 21:18:47 22343,0 PrepareToPut: SRM98 - PrepareToPut 132 90f8bfce-5fb1-41d2-b335-3908935a6038
08/04 21:18:47 22343,0 PrepareToPut: SRM98 - PrepareToPut 0 srm://testbed006.cnaf.infn.it:8444/cnaf/put-test-xxx1
08/04 21:18:47 22343,0 PrepareToPut: SRM98 - PrepareToPut 1 srm://testbed006.cnaf.infn.it:8444/cnaf/put-test-xxx2
08/04 21:18:47 22343,0 PrepareToPut: SRM98 - PrepareToPut 2 srm://testbed006.cnaf.infn.it:8444/cnaf/put-test-xxx3
08/04 21:18:47 22343,0 PrepareToPut: returns 0
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.B ...(1)
